The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) conducts the Civil Services Examination (CSE), which is also known as the UPSC exam, to recruit candidates for various civil services positions in the Indian government. The CSE consists of three stages: the preliminary examination, the main examination, and the interview.

The syllabus for the UPSC exam is quite vast and covers a wide range of topics from different subjects. Here is a general overview of the syllabus for the UPSC exam:

Preliminary Exam:

    General Studies Paper I

    Current events of national and international importance
    History of India and Indian National Movement
    Indian and World Geography - Physical, Social, Economic geography of India and the world
    Indian Polity and Governance - Constitution, Political System, Panchayati Raj, Public Policy, Rights Issues, etc.
    Economic and Social Development - Sustainable Development, Poverty, Inclusion, Demographics, Social Sector Initiatives, etc.
    General issues on Environmental ecology, Bio-diversity and Climate Change
    General Science

    General Studies Paper II (CSAT)

    Comprehension
    Interpersonal skills including communication skills
    Logical reasoning and analytical ability
    Decision-making and problem-solving
    General mental ability
    Basic numeracy (numbers and their relations, orders of magnitude, etc.) (Class X level)
    Data interpretation (charts, graphs, tables, data sufficiency, etc. - Class X level)

Main Exam:

    Paper A - Indian Language
    Paper B - English
    Essay
    General Studies I - Indian Heritage and Culture, History and Geography of the World and Society
    General Studies II - Governance, Constitution, Polity, Social Justice and International Relations
    General Studies III - Technology, Economic Development, Biodiversity, Environment, Security and Disaster Management
    General Studies IV - Ethics, Integrity and Aptitude
    Optional Subject Paper I
    Optional Subject Paper II

Interview:

The interview assesses the candidate's personality, suitability for a career in public service, mental alertness, and critical powers of assimilation. The interview carries 275 marks.

It is important to note that the UPSC syllabus is quite dynamic and subject to change at the discretion of the UPSC. Candidates are advised to refer to the official UPSC website for the latest and most accurate information on the syllabus.
